`(springkussen x509)` - X.509 APIs
==================================

X.509 basically consists with three components, certificate, CSR and CRL.
This library, at this moment, only support certificate and CSR.

X.509 certificate APIs
----------------------

The below example shows how to read an X.509 certificate from a file
and validate it's signature with the CA certificate then retrieves
its public key.

```scheme
#!r6rs
(import (rnrs)
	(springkussen x509))

(define ca-cert
  (call-with-port (open-file-input-port "ca-cert.der") read-x509-certificate))

(define cert
  (call-with-port (open-file-input-port "cert.der") read-x509-certificate))

;; Raises an &springkussen error if it's not a valid certificate
(x509-certificate:validate cert
  (list (make-x509-signature-validator ca-cert)))

(x509-certificate:public-key cert) ;; -> public key
```

For more examples, see [examples/x509](./examples/x509).

###### [Procedure] `x509-certificate?` _obj_

Returns `#t` if the given _obj_ is a X.509 certificate, otherwise `#f`.

###### [Procedure] `read-x509-certificate`
###### [Procedure] `read-x509-certificate` _port_

_port_ must be a binary input port if the second form is used.

Reads a X.509 certificate from the given _port_.  
If the first form is used, then `(current-input-port)` will be used to
read.

###### [Procedure] `bytevector->x509-certificate` _bv_

_bv_ must be a bytevector.

Construct a X.509 certificate from the given _bv_.

###### [Procedure] `write-x509-certificate` _certificate_
###### [Procedure] `write-x509-certificate` _certificate_ _port_

_certificate_ must be a X.509 certificate.  
_port_ must be a binary output port.

Writes the given _certificate_ to the _port_ with ASN.1 DER format.  
If the first form is used, then `(current-output-port)` will be used to
write.

###### [Procedure] `x509-certificate->bytevector` _certificate_

_certificate_ must be a X.509 certificate.

Returns a bytevector of the given _certificate_ in ASN.1 DER format.

###### [Procedure] `make-x509-self-signed-certificate` _key-pair_ _serial-number_ _subject_ _validity_
###### [Procedure] `make-x509-self-signed-certificate` _key-pair_ _serial-number_ _subject_ _validity_ _extensions_

_key-pair_ must be a key pair.  
_serial-number_ must be an exact integer.  
_subject_ must be a X.509 name, described below.  
_validity_ must be a X.509 validity, described below.  
_extensions_ must be a X.509 extensions, if the second form is used.

Creates a self signed X.509 certificate.

###### [Procedure] `x509-certificate:public-key` _certificate_

_certificate_ must be a X.509 certificate.

Retireves the public key of the given _certificate_.

###### [Procedure] `x509-certificate:version` _certificate_

_certificate_ must be a X.509 certificate.

Retireves the certificate version of the given _certificate_.

###### [Procedure] `x509-certificate:serial-number` _certificate_

_certificate_ must be a X.509 certificate.

Retireves the serial number of the given _certificate_.

###### [Procedure] `x509-certificate:signature` _certificate_

_certificate_ must be a X.509 certificate.

Retireves the signature of the given _certificate_.

###### [Procedure] `x509-certificate:issuer` _certificate_

_certificate_ must be a X.509 certificate.

Retireves the issuerDN the given _certificate_.

###### [Procedure] `x509-certificate:validity` _certificate_

_certificate_ must be a X.509 certificate.

Retireves the not-before and not-after of the given _certificate_.  
This procedure returns two values.

###### [Procedure] `x509-certificate:subject` _certificate_

_certificate_ must be a X.509 certificate.

Retireves the subjectDN the given _certificate_.

###### [Procedure] `x509-certificate:issuer-unique-id` _certificate_

_certificate_ must be a X.509 certificate.

Retireves the issuer unique ID of the given _certificate_.

###### [Procedure] `x509-certificate:subject-unique-id` _certificate_

_certificate_ must be a X.509 certificate.

Retireves the subject unique ID of the given _certificate_.

###### [Procedure] `x509-certificate:extensions` _certificate_

_certificate_ must be a X.509 certificate.

Retireves the extensions of the given _certificate_.

###### [Procedure] `x509-certificate:signature-algorithm` _certificate_

_certificate_ must be a X.509 certificate.

Retireves the signature algorithm of the given _certificate_.

###### [Procedure] `x509-certificate:validate` _certificate_ _validators_

_certificate_ must be a X.509 certificate.  
_validators_ must ba list of procedures accept one argument.

Validates the given _certificate_ against the given _validators_.  
If the validation failed, then it raises an `&springkussen` with `&error`
condition.

###### [Procedure] `make-x509-signature-validator` _certificate_

_certificate_ must be a X.509 certificate.  

Creates a validator procedure which validates the target certificate's 
signature.  
The _certificate_ must be a CA certificate of the target certificate.

###### [Procedure] `x509-validity?` _obj_

Returns `#t` if the given _obj_ is a X.509 validity, otherwise `#f`.

###### [Procedure] `make-x509-validity` _not-before_ _not-after_

_not-before_ must be a string.  
_not-after_ must be a string.  
Both of the arguments must reporesents dates with format of `yyMMddhhmmssZ`.

Makes a X.509 validity.

###### [Procedure] `x509-name?` _obj_

Returns `#t` if the given _obj_ is a X.509 name, otherwise `#f`.

###### [Procedure] `make-x509-distinguished-names` _name_ _..._

_name_ must be a list.  
The _name_ must be one of the followings:

- `(symbol "value")`
- `("oid" "value")`

The `symbol` must be one of the followings:

- `CN`: common name
- `SURNAME`: sur name
- `SERIALNUMBER`: serial number
- `C`: country
- `L`: locality name
- `ST`: state or province name
- `STREET`: street name
- `O`: organisation
- `OU`: organisation unit
- `T`: title
- `DN`: registered address
- `GIVENNAME`: given name
- `GENERATION`: generation
- `E`: email address
- `DC`: domain component
- `UID`: userid

Makes a X.509 names from the given *name*s.

###### [Procedure] `x509-extensions?` _obj_

Returns `#t` if the given _obj_ is a X.509 extensions, otherwise `#f`.

###### [Procedure] `make-x509-extensions` _list_

_list_ must be a list of X.509 extension.

Makes a X.509 extensions from the given _list_.

###### [Procedure] `x509-extensions` _extension_ _..._

_extension_ must be a X.509 extension.

Makes a X.509 extensions from the given *extension*s.

###### [Procedure] `x509-extensions-length` _extensions_

_extensions_ must be a X.509 extensions.

Returns the length of the given _extensions_.

###### [Procedure] `x509-extensions-elements`

_extensions_ must be a X.509 extensions.

Returns a list of the elements of the given _extensions_.

###### [Procedure] `x509-extension?` _obj_

Returns `#t` if the given _obj_ is a X.509 extension, otherwise `#f`.

###### [Procedure] `x509-authority-key-identifier-extension?` _obj_

Returns `#t` if the given _obj_ is a X.509 authority key identifier extension,
otherwise `#f`.  
If the procedure returns `#t` to the _obj_, then `x509-extensions` returns
also `#t` to the _obj_.

###### [Procedure] `make-x509-authority-key-identifier-extension` _key-identifier_
###### [Procedure] `make-x509-authority-key-identifier-extension` _authority-cert-issuer_ _authority-serial-number_
###### [Procedure] `make-x509-authority-key-identifier-extension` _key-identifier_ _authority-cert-issuer_ _authority-serial-number_

_key-identifier_ must be a bytevector.  
_authority-cert-issuer_ must be a X.509 general names, described below.  
_authority-serial-number_ must be an exact integer.

Makes AuthorityKeyIdentifier X.509 extension.

###### [Procedure] `x509-general-names?` _obj_

Returns `#t` if the given _obj_ is a X.509 general names, otherwise `#f`.

###### [Procedure] `make-x509-general-names` _list_

_list_ must be a list of X.509 general name.

Makes a X.509 general names from the given _list_.

###### [Procedure] `x509-general-names` _name_ _..._

_name_ must be a X.509 general name.

Makes a X.509 general names from the given *name*s.

###### [Procedure] `x509-general-name?` _obj_

Returns `#t` if the given _obj_ is a X.509 general name, otherwise `#f`.

###### [Procedure] `other-name->x509-general-name` _oid_ _value_

_oid_ must be a string representation of OID.  
_value_ must be a ASN.1 object.

Makes a X.509 general name from the given _oid_ and _value_.

###### [Procedure] `rfc822-name->x509-general-name` _string_

_string_ must be a string.

Makes a X.509 general name from the given _string_.

###### [Procedure] `dns-name->x509-general-name` _string_

_string_ must be a string.

Makes a X.509 general name from the given _string_.

###### [Procedure] `directory-name->x509-general-name` _name_

_name_ must be a X.509 name.

Makes a X.509 general name from the given _name_.

###### [Procedure] `uniform-resource-identifier->x509-general-name` _string_

_string_ must be a string.

Makes a X.509 general name from the given _string_.

###### [Procedure] `ip-address->x509-general-name` _bv_

_bv_ must be a bytevector.

Makes a X.509 general name from the given _bv_.

###### [Procedure] `registered-id->x509-general-name` _oid_

_oid_ must be a string representation of OID.

Makes a X.509 general name from the given _oid_.


X.509 certificate signing request APIs
--------------------------------------

###### [Procedure] `x509-certificate-signing-request?` _obj_

Returns `#t` if the given _obj_ is a X.509 CSR, otherwise `#f`.

###### [Procedure] `read-x509-certificate-signing-request`
###### [Procedure] `read-x509-certificate-signing-request` _port_

_port_ must be a binary input port if the second form is used.

Reads a X.509 CSR from the given _port_.  
If the first form is used, then `(current-input-port)` is used to read.

###### [Procedure] `bytevector->x509-certificate-signing-request` _bv_

_bv_ must be a bytevector.

Converts the given _bv_ to a X.509 CSR.

###### [Procedure] `write-x509-certificate-signing-request` _csr_ 
###### [Procedure] `write-x509-certificate-signing-request` _csr_ _port_

_csr must be a X.509 CSR.  
_port_ must be a binary output port.

Writes the given _csr_ to the _port_ with ASN.1 DER format.  
If the first form is used, then `(current-output-port)` will be used to
write.

###### [Procedure] `x509-certificate-signing-request->bytevector` _csr_

_csr_ must be a X.509 CSR.

Returns a bytevector of the given _csr_ in ASN.1 DER format.


###### [Procedure] `x509-certificate-signing-request:subject` _csr_

_csr_ must be a X.509 CSR.

Returns subject of the given _csr_.

###### [Procedure] `x509-certificate-signing-request:subject-pk-info` _csr_

_csr_ must be a X.509 CSR.

Returns subject pk info of the given _csr_.

###### [Procedure] `x509-certificate-signing-request:sign` _csr_ _serial-number_ _validity_ _ca-cert_ _private_key_
###### [Procedure] `x509-certificate-signing-request:sign` _csr_ _serial-number_ _validity_ _ca-cert_ _private_key_ _extensions_

_csr_ must be x X.509 CSR.  
_serial-number_ must be an exact integer.  
_validity_ must be a X.509 validity.  
_ca-cert_ must be a X.509 certificate.  
_private_key_ must be a private key.  
_extensions_ must be a X.509 extension if the second form is used.

Signs the given _csr_ with the given _private_key_ via Springkussen's default
signing algorithsm.  
If the signature validation of this _csr_ failed, then `&springkussen` with
`&error` is raised.

At this moment, the default signing algorithsm of CSR is the following:

- For RSA key, RSAwithSHA256 (OID: 1.2.840.113549.1.1.11)
- For ECDSA key, ECDSAwithSha256 (OID: 1.2.840.10045.4.3.2)

###### [Procedure] `x509-certificate-signing-request-builder?` _obj_

Returns `#t` if the given _obj_ is a X.509 CSR builder, otherwise `#f`.

###### [Macro] `x509-certificate-signing-request-builder-builder` _clause_ _..._

_clause_ must be this form `(field value)`.

A macro to build a X.509 CSR builder.  
The `field` of the _clause_ must be one of them:

- `key-pair`: Specifying the key pair, its private key is used to calculate a signature of the building CSR.
- `subject`: X.509 name.
- `attributes`: X.509 CSR attributes


###### [Procedure] `x509-certificate-signing-request-builder:build`_csr-builder_

_csr-builder_ must be a X.509 CSR builder.

Builds a X.509 CSR from the given _csr-builder_.

###### [Procedure] `x509-attributes?` _obj_

Returns `#t` if the given _obj_ is a X.509 attributes, otherwise `#f`.

###### [Procedure] `make-x509-attributes` _list_

_list_ must be a list of X.509 attribute.

Makes a X.509 attributes from the given _list_.

###### [Procedure] `x509-attributes` _attribute_ _..._

_attribute_ must be a X.509 attribute.

Makes a X.509 attributes from the given *attribute*s.

###### [Procedure] `x509-attribute?` _obj_

Returns `#t` if the given _obj_ is a X.509 attribute, otherwise `#f`.

###### [Procedure] `x509-challenge-password-attribute?` _obj_

Returns `#t` if the given _obj_ is a X.509 challenge password attribute, otherwise `#f`.  
If this procedure returns `#t` to _obj_, then `x509-attribute?` also
returns `#t` to the _obj_.

###### [Procedure] `make-x509-challenge-password-attribute` _string_

_string_ must be a string.

Makes a ChallengePasswordAttribute with the given _string_.

###### [Procedure] `x509-extension-request-attribute?` _obj_

Returns `#t` if the given _obj_ is a X.509 extension request attribute, 
otherwise `#f`.  
If this procedure returns `#t` to _obj_, then `x509-attribute?` also
returns `#t` to the _obj_.

###### [Procedure] `make-x509-extension-request-attribute` _extensions_

_extensions_ must be a X.509 extensions.

Makes an ExtensionRequestAttribute with the given _extensions_.
